# README

### Sources

The javascript and java programs are based off of examples provided by AWS for using their SDKs. `App.js` is from an example provided by node for running local web servers, the arduino program is based on an example provided in the library for the breakout board, and the serialcomm.java is from my old cse132 code.

## Install

### Arduino

To run the arduino code, use the Arduino IDE to compile, then upload the sketch under `arduino/` and then plug that into a computer. To read temperature data from a thermocouple you will also need a program to read serial data.

### Java

Under `java/` there is a java package and a `pom.xml` file. To run these you will need the latest version of maven. It's easier to run this in IntelliJ since it will do a lot of the work for you but this can be done in terminal. The `pom.xml` contains the project dependeniecs and when you create a new maven project, copy the contents of the `pom.xml` file into the top level xml file generated by maven in the new project. Then run `mvn clean install` to the SDK and other dependencies, or use IntelliJ and then just press the sync button when prompted after modifying the pom file.

The java program requires 4 command line arguments when executing it, `--endpoint --cert --key --rootca`. The endpoint is a URL that is generated when you create an AWS account and use the IoT Core service. The cert is a thing certificate, which is generated when you create a new IoT Thing and attach a certificate. The IoT Thing is AWS's representation of the IoT device you're trying to connect to their service. The key is a private key that is also generated when you create the Thing. The rootca is the root certificate authority and is provided by Amazon as well. The files (cert, key, rootca) are only downloadable once immediately after creating a certificate for an IoT Thing, so once those are downloaded on to the device, then pass their absolute locations in the filesystem as command line arguments to the java program.

### Javascript

To run the javascript program requires node.js, git, npm. There is a package.json file in `javascript/` that contains the dependencies, and once node and npm are installed you can run `npm install` in the same directory as the package.json. This will install all required node modules.

The node app also requires certificates like the java program. You can attach multiple certificates to an IoT Thing so to run the javascript, you will need the same certificates and keys required by the java program, but these have to be tied to a separate certificate than the java program. Then fill in the cooresponding sections with the paths to the certs and keys in `javascript/main.js`. Then to run the program run `node App.js` and a local web server will be started and you should be able to see the output from the thermocouple in the same console if the thermocouple is outputting temperatures.

